---
title: EECS 203
author: Ammar Ateya
---

# {% $frontmatter.title %}

> by {% $frontmatter.author %}

## Intro

Take this with [280](/docs/lib/classes/280), you'll thank me later.

This is my favorite EECS course ever, since there's no programming (YAY). At the same time, you need to completely context switch from basically any course you have ever taken before, math or otherwise (unless you have done proof-based or some type of honors math before this,
which is not applicable to most).

## Homework

Go to office hours, do your homework entirely in office hours. I'd recommend 2 3-hour sessions of just sitting in office hours and working on your homework problem set, while talking with the IAs and getting a little help from them. Make sure you stay up to date with lecture, since the homework will be extremely hard without it. It's still challenging regardless, and ChatGPT probably isn't good enough to help you that much, so make sure you understand it well.

Some of the probability and counting problem sets will be out of this world difficult, so you are likely to need to use one of your drops. If you make a good case, you can get an additional drop through admin form.

## Lectures

Professors are usually good for this course, ask around and shop around for opinions, and try out different professors if you need to. Important to stay on track.

## Discussion

Discussion is essentially useless, if they don't let you work on the homework. The discussion problems take forever, so if you're going slowly through it in discussion, just go ahead and skip. The problems are good practice though, but the main problem is that you will usually only cover one topic in discussion since you will be going so slowly (if it's a section where they work through the problem packet).

## Exams

There's 3 exams, they're a big step from previous exams you've taken if you haven't done proofs before. Do practice exams, start early on reviewing and STAY UP TO DATE ON LECTURE. Do all these things and life will be okay.
