---
title: EECS 183
author: Ammar Ateya
---

# {% $frontmatter.title %}

> by {% $frontmatter.author %}

## Intro

183 was basically my first foray into actually programming - I had taken AP CS Principles in the 10th grade, and some intro to programming course senior year of high school, but I had effectively forgotten everything. That being said, I did brush up a little on super basic concepts before the course started, so things like: - What are some primitive data types (integers, strings, floats, characters)? - What are arrays? - For loops, while loops - Conditionals, booleans (true/false) - What is a function?

## Lecture

Once the course started, I went to a few lectures from Professor Arthur, and quickly realized that the content was mostly stuff I already knew, and that I was wasting my time going to lecture (and lab). I don't recommend skipping unless you truly know the content, since it's such a foundational course. Also, you lose 1% of your grade if you skip lecture. The only thing I learned specifically from 183 is what a class is, and how to begin to think of programming in an object oriented way, and building custom data types.

## Lab

If you know what's going on in class, lab will be the easiest thing in the world. The lab slides are always terrible and confusing, so just skip to do the lab assignment and work backwards. The instructors aren't guaranteed to be great (undergraduate teaching assistants usually teach 183 lab sections), so their explanations may not be the best resource.

## Projects

The projects for 183 seem daunting at first, I would recommend writing out the flow of the program - "What can happen with input like this?" - and think through all the conditionals and loops that you need to write out to achieve that. 183's projects are essentially just a bunch of if statements and for loops, so realizing that early can help you finish the projects quickly and accurately.

## Exams

The exams are actually somewhat challenging from what I remember, but that's since most of the multiple choice are trick questions that are testing your knowledge of edge case facts about simple C++ behavior, if I remember correctly. I didn't study for either exam and tanked a B+ and a C+, but if you have perfect project grades, it's fine and you will get an A.

## Final Project

Lastly, the final project: I'd recommend doing Elevators, or whatever the non Arduino project is for your semester. Pick a super simple algorithm, don't try anything confusing and you will get a 100% on first submission.

> For elevators, I wrote an algorithm that chose the first available elevator from 0-2, in increasing order, and sent it to the floor with the highest average anger per person waiting to be serviced. I got 100% on my first submission of the "Reach" part.
